---
excalidraw-default-mode: view
---


```toc

```

^TOC

<[[2022-2023 Sophomore/Fall Quarter/MA276 Intro To Proofs/Notes/2022-10-27|previous]] | [[2022-11-01|next]]>

### Strong Induction

The "base case" has been absorbed into the strong inductive hypothesis, In particular, the predicate $\forall K \in \mathbb{Z}^+[k<1\to P(k)]$ is vacuously true, so the strong inductive step implies $P(1)$ is true.


### Theorem
Every integer $n>1$ is divisible by a prime.

<u>proof</u>: Let $P(n)$ be the predicate "$n$ is divisible by a prime." Let $n>1$ be an integer. Suppose that for all integers <u>$k$ satisfying $1<k<n$ </u> we have $k$ is divisible by a prime (i.e. $P(k)$ is true). We want to show $P(n)$ is true.

- Case 1 n is a prime. Then $n\mid n$ so $n$ is divisible by a prime. So $P(n)$ is true.
- Case 2 $n$ is not a prime. Since $n>1, \exists a,b\in\mathbb{Z}^+$ such that $a\neq1,\;b\neq1$. This means $a>1$ and $b>1.$ Suppose for contradiction $a\geq n.$ Then $n=a\cdot b\geq n\cdot b > n, \bot$ a contradiction. So $a<n.$ Since $1<a<n,\;P(n)$ is true, which means $\forall$ prime $p$ Such that $p\mid a,\;\exists c \in \mathbb{Z}$ such that $a = p\cdot c.$ This means that $n=ab=p\cdot c \cdot b.$ This $p\mid n.$ So $p(n)$ is true. By strong induction, the result holds.$\qquad\blacksquare$

## Structural Induction

### Theorem

Let $A$ be a non-empty set and let $f:A\to A$. Let $B\subseteq A$ and suppose $(b_n)$ is a recursive sequence defined by $b_{n+1}=f(b_n)$
Suppose:

BASE CASE:  $b_1\in B$ and 

STRUCTURAL INDUCTION STEP: $B$ is closed under $f.$

Then $\forall n \in \mathbb{Z}^+,\;b_n\in B$

<u>proof</u>: Let $\{n\in\mathbb{Z}^+:b_n\notin B\}.$

Suppose by the way of contradiction $S\neq \emptyset.$
By the well-ordering axiom, $S$ has a smallest element, say $m$.

By the base case $m \neq 1,$ so $m>1$. This means $m-1\in\mathbb{Z}^+$ and $b_{m-1}\in B$ By structural induction step, $f(b_{m+1}) \in B$