---
excalidraw-default-mode: view
---


```toc

```

^TOC

<[[2022-2023 Sophomore/MA276 Intro To Proofs/Notes/2022-09-02|previous]] | [[|next]]>

## Reading Example

> If I don't feed by cats, then my partner will. 
> I fed the cats, therefore, my partner did not.

This is an invalid argument because both people could have fed the cats.

$$(P\rightarrow Q)$$
$$\frac{\neg P}{Q}$$

In a conditional, Negative the if part doesn't let you conclude anything.

### Correction:
>Precisely one of my partner of I will feed the cats.
>I fed the cats.
>Therefore my partner did not.

## Laws of Logic
- Conditional Law: $P \rightarrow Q \equiv \neg P \vee Q$
- DeMorgans's Laws:
	- $\neg [P \vee Q] \equiv \neg P \wedge \neg Q$
	- $\neg [P \wedge Q] \equiv \neg P \vee \neg Q$
- Distributive Laws:
	- $P \wedge [Q \vee R] \equiv [P \wedge Q] \vee [P \wedge R]$
	- $P\vee [Q\wedge R] \equiv [P \vee Q]\wedge[P\vee R]$

- The brackets are *very* important when writing these laws!

>e.g:  $P \vee Q \wedge R \neq P \vee [Q \wedge R]$

When you mix and match OR's and AND's groupings matter.


<u>Definition:</u>
> Let P AND  be propositions. Given $P\rightarrow Q$, we have the following related statements:
> The contrapositive: $\neg Q \rightarrow \neg P$
> The converse: $Q \rightarrow P$
> The inverse: $\neg P \rightarrow \neg Q$

The most important one is the **contrapositive**, because they are logically equivalent: $P\rightarrow Q \equiv \neg Q\rightarrow \neg P$

### Steps to show equivalence: 
$$\neg Q \rightarrow \neg P \equiv [\neg\neg]Q \vee \neg P\,
 \text{(By conditional law)}$$
$$\equiv Q\vee P\,\text{(double negation)}$$
$$\equiv \neg P\vee Q\,\text{(commutes)}$$
$$P \rightarrow Q\,\text{(by Conditional Law)}$$

### Important Notes:
The conditional is equivalent to the contrapositive
The converse is equivalent to the inverse, because the inverse is the contrapositive of the converse.

All 4 are equivalent if $P\rightarrow Q$ becomes $P \leftrightarrow Q$

The converse and the inverse truth values are independent of $P\rightarrow Q$


### What is a mathematical argument?
<u>Definition:</u>
> An <u>argument</u> is an implication of the form $[P_1\wedge P_2\wedge ... \wedge P_n] \rightarrow Q$.
> The proposition $P_1,...,P_n$ are called <u>hypotheses</u> of (collectively) the <u>antecedent</u>, and Q is called the <u>conclusion</u>

Saying that an argument is valid, means that when the conclusion is true, all of the hypotheses are true.

Other notation: $$
\begin{matrix}
           P_{1} \\
           P_{2} \\
           \vdots \\
           P_{n} \\
           \hline 
           Q\\
         \end{matrix}$$

## Using a truth table to show validity

Steps:
1. First, find rows where all hypotheses are true.
2. If, in all of these rows, the conclusion is true, then the argument is valid.

### Example Modus Ponens

$$
\begin{matrix}
           P \\
           P\rightarrow Q \\
           \hline 
           \therefore Q\\
         \end{matrix}
$$

| $P$ | $Q$ | $P \rightarrow Q$  |
|:---:| :----: | :----: | 
| **T** | **T** | T | 
| **T** | **F** |  F |
| **F** | **T** | T* | 
| **F** | **F** | T* | 

This is valid.

### Example
$$
\begin{matrix}
           P \\
           P\rightarrow Q \\
           \hline 
           \therefore P\\
         \end{matrix}
$$

| $P$ | $Q$ | $P \rightarrow Q$  |
|:---:| :----: | :----: | 
| **T** | **T** | T | 
| **T** | **F** |  F |
| **F** | **T** | T* | 
| **F** | **F** | T* | 

This is INVALID because in row 3 (1 indexed) Q and P implies Q is true, but P is false. 

### Another Example
Validate the following argument:
$$
\begin{matrix}
		P\rightarrow (Q \rightarrow R) \\
		P \vee S \\
		T \rightarrow Q \\
		\neg S \\
		\hline
		\therefore \neg R \rightarrow \neg T
\end{matrix}
$$

We need a way that doesn't use truth tables because that would be a massive truth table.

<u>proof:</u> We know that $\neg S$ is true by assumption. Since $P \vee S$ is true, it must be that P is true (disjunctive syllogism) Since P is true and we know that $P \rightarrow (Q\rightarrow R)$ is true, then $Q \rightarrow R$ is true (modus ponens) Since $T \rightarrow Q$ and $T \rightarrow R$ are both true, then $T\rightarrow R$ is true. (Law of Syllogism) Since $T \rightarrow R$ is true, and is logically equivalent to $\neg R \rightarrow \neg T$, we know that $\neg R \rightarrow \neg T$ is true. $\blacksquare$