---
excalidraw-default-mode: view
---


```toc

```

^TOC

<[[2022-2023 Sophomore/MA276 Intro To Proofs/Notes/2022-10-10|previous]] | [[[|next]]>

### Definition - bijective
Let $f:A\to B$. We say that $f:A\to B$ is *bijective* or $f$ is a *bijections* to mean that $f$ is injective and surjective.

> **Warning!** If $A$ and $B$ are <u>finite</u>, then $\exists$ bijection $f:A\to B$ if and only if $A$ and $B$ have the same number of elements.

If $A$ and $B$ are not finite, then stranger things happen. It is possible to have a bijection $f:A\to B$, where $A\subseteq B$ and $A\neq B$. $(A\subset B)$



#### Example
Let $A = \mathbb{R}\backslash{1}$ and let $f:A\to A$ be defined by $x\to \frac{x+1}{x-1}$. Prove that $f$ is a bijection.

<u>proof</u>. (Injective) Suppose $x,y \in A$ such that $f(x)=f(y)$. We want to show $x=y$. This means that $\frac{x+1}{x-1} = \frac{y+1}{y-1} \equiv (x+1)(y-1) = (x-1)(y+1)$ $\equiv y=x$. This tells us the $f$ is injective.

(Surjective) Let $y \in A$.  Let $x=\frac{y+1}{y-1}$. We want to show that $f(x) = y$ and $x\in A$ where $A$ is $\mathbb{R}\backslash{1}$. Since $y\neq 1$, we know that $x$ is a real number. We need to argue that x is also $x \neq 1$. Suppose by way of contradiction that $x=1$. (We'd like to run into a problem that shows that x cannot be 1). This means that $\frac{y+1}{y-1} = 1$. So $y+1 = y -1$, so $1= -1$, a contradiction, So $x\neq 1$. So $x\in A.$

Now notice that $f(x) = \frac{x+1}{x-1} = \frac{\frac{y+1}{y-1}+1}{\frac{y+1}{y-1} -1} = \frac{(y+1)+(y-1)}{(y+1)-(y-1)} = \frac{2y}{2} = y$.

So $f$ is surjective.

Therefore $f$ is bijective. $\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\blacksquare$


### Definition 

Let $A$ and $B$ be non-empty sets and let $f: A\to B$.  Since $f$ is a relation, we know that we can find $f^{-1}$. 
$$f^{-1} = \{(b,a) \in B\times A : (a,b) \in f\}$$

**Question:** When is $f^{-1}$ also a function.
**Question:** What does it mean for $f^{-1}$ to be a function?

**Ans:** $\forall b \in B[\exists!a\in A[(b,a)\in f^{-1}]]$