---
excalidraw-default-mode: view
---


```toc

```

^TOC

<[[2022-2023 Sophomore/MA276 Intro To Proofs/Notes/2022-10-18|previous]] | [[|next]]>

## Theorem Contd

Let $A$ be a nonempty set, and $f:A\to A$. 

For all $B \subseteq A$, the closure of $B$ under $f$ exists.

<u>proof</u>.
CASE1: $B=\emptyset$. Since $\emptyset$ is closed, its closure is itself.

CASE2: $B \neq \emptyset$ Let $\mathcal{K}\subseteq \mathcal{P}(A)$. Note that $\mathcal{K}$ is nonempty because at least $A\in\mathcal{K}$ Let $C = \bigcap \mathcal{K}$. We will show $C$ is the closure of $B$.

1. Let $b\in B$. Then $\forall X \in \mathcal{K}$, we know $b \in X$. Si $b\in\bigcap \mathcal{K} = C$. So $B\subseteq C$
2. Let $c \in C.$ Goal $f(c)\in C$. So $c\in X$ for all $x \in \mathcal{K}$. Since $X$ is closed, $f(c) \in X$ for all $X\in\mathcal{K}.$ Then $f(c)\in\bigcap\mathcal{K}= C.$
3. Let $X\in\mathcal{K}.$ We want to show $C\subseteq X.$ Since $C=\bigcap \mathcal{K}.$ Since $C=\bigcap\mathcal{K},$ we know $\bigcap\mathcal{K}\subseteq X.$ Thus $C$ is the smallest element in $\mathcal{K}$ and so $C$ is the closure of $B.$



## Exam Notes:
- Covers Ch4 and Ch5 of the text (Review 3)
	- HWK8- HWK12
- 6 questions total
- 3 proofs
	- 1 is "half" a problem
	- 2 big ones

#### Review proof strategies from Ch3!!!

### Topics and Definitions
- Cartesian products
- What is a relation from $A\;\text{to}\;B$ vs a relation on $A$ 
	- Identify Relations
- Relation properties:
	- reflexive
	- symmetric
	- antisymmetric
	- transitive
- Be able to give examples of the relation properties above
- Be able to compose relations between sets
- Recognize the aforementioned relation properties when given a graph.
- Be able to write proofs of facts about Cartesian products and relations.
- Know what is a:
	- Equivalence class
	- Equivalence relation
	- partition of a set
- Determine whether a relation is an equivalence relation
- Determine the partitions of set $A$ when given an equivalence relation and be able to determine the equivalence relation given a partition.
- Explain common examples of equivalence relations and partitions
- Know what a function is and be able to determine if a relation is a function.
- Translate between words, graphs, lists and symbolic descriptors of a function.
- Find the domain, co-domain, range, image, and preimage of elements and sets.
- Know what one-to-one/injective and onto/surjective are and be able to identity examples of them.
- Given criterion, construct a function.
- Determine whether a function is bijective/invertible
- Write proofs regarding functions and properties of functions, compositions, inverses, images, and preimages.
- Determine Whether a set is closed and 