---
excalidraw-default-mode: view
---


```toc

```

^TOC

<[[2022-2023 Sophomore/MA276 Intro To Proofs/Notes/2022-09-09|previous]] | [[2022-2023 Sophomore/MA276 Intro To Proofs/Notes/2022-09-13|next]]>

### Example 2 Continued:
Show the statements $C \subseteq (A\cup B)$ and $(C\backslash A) \subseteq B$ are logically equivalent.

Two starting points:
$$\forall x (x\in C \to (x \in A \lor x \in B))$$
$$\forall x (x \in C \land \neg (x\in A) \to x \in B)$$

proof:
$$\forall x (x \in C \land \neg (x\in A) \to x \in B)$$
is equivalent to
$$\forall (\neg (x \in C \land \neg (x\in A))\lor x \in B)$$
is equivalent
$$\forall x ((\neg(x\in V)\lor(x\in A)\lor x \in B))$$
$$\forall x (\neg ( x\in C) \lor (x \in A \lor x \in B))$$
is equivalent to
$$\forall x ( x\in C \to x \in A \lor x \in B) \quad\blacksquare$$


## On Sets

Current Way:
$$\{ x \in \mathbb{z} : \exists y \in \mathbb{Z} [y^3=x]\}$$
This above way goes universe to predicate.
Instead we can:
$$\{y^3 : y\in\mathbb{Z}\}$$
go from expression to indexset

Index sets can be anything. In the abstract, we use I to denote the indexing set.

$$\{x \in \mathcal{U}:\exists I \in I [x=a_i]\} = \{a_i : i \in I\}$$
where $a_i$ is the expression that needs to be true.


<u>Definition:</u> Let A be a non-empty set. The power set of A, denoted $\mathcal{P}(A)$ is the set of all subsets of A. The empty set, denoted $\emptyset$ is the subset of A that contains no elements. $(\emptyset = \{\})$


### Example

Determine the power set of A where $A = \{\epsilon,\mu,\alpha\}$
$$\mathcal{P}(A) = \{\emptyset,\epsilon\},\{\mu\}\},\{\alpha\},\{\epsilon,\mu\},\{\mu\alpha\},\{\epsilon,\alpha\},\{\epsilon,\mu,\alpha\}\}$$


**NOTE:** In general, if A is finites with n elements, $\mathcal{P}(A)$ is also finite and will have $2^n$ elements.

**NOTATION:**
- $x \in \mathcal{P}(A) \equiv x \subseteq A$
- $1 \in \mathcal{P}(\mathbb{N}) \;\text{is false}$
- $\{1\} \in \mathcal{P}(\mathbb{N}) \;\text{is true}$


If $\mathcal{F} \subseteq \mathcal{P}(A)$, then we say that $\mathcal{F}$ is a family of subsets of A.

e.g. The family of subsets of $\mathbb{R}$ of the form $(-\infty,a)$ where a is a real number.
$$\mathcal{F} = \{(-\infty,a):a\in \mathbb{R}\}$$

### Intersections and unions of families of subsets.
Let $\mathcal{F} \subseteq \mathcal{P}(U)$ where U is some set. We often use the following:
$$\bigcap \mathcal{F}:= \{x \in U : \forall X \in \mathcal{F}[x\in X]\}$$
$$\bigcup\mathcal{F} := \{x \in U : \exists X \in \mathcal{F}[x\in X]\}$$

If $\mathcal{F} = \{X_i : i \in I\}$, then the notation becomes:
$$\bigcap\mathcal{F} = \bigcap X_i = \{x \in U : \forall i\in I [x\in X_i]\}$$

Take the intersection of all of the sets that appear in the family and take all of the x's that appear in all of them.

$$\bigcup \mathcal{F} = \bigcup X_i = \{x \in U: \exists i \in I [ x \in X_i]\}$$

#### Example:
Let $A = \{\varepsilon_1,\mu,\alpha\}$ and let $\mathcal{F} = \{\{\varepsilon,\mu\},\{\mu,\alpha\},\{\mu\}\}$
Compute $\bigcap\mathcal{F}$ and $\bigcup\mathcal{F}$
$$\bigcap\mathcal{F} = \{\mu\}$$
$$\bigcup\mathcal{F} = \{\varepsilon,\mu,\alpha\}$$

Both of these operations flatten a 2d set.





