### Makefiles
```toc

```

^TOC

There will be a 10 point "bribe" on every exam that involves making a make file.

##### Make is generic build tool

- Make is a generic build tool. It is built off the idea that a particular build target is build from particular dependent files
- These sources might be stuff that's edited directly, or might be themselves build targets that have their own dependencies
- We detect changes based on the modification dates of files.
	- When the source file is more recent than the output file, it wil determine that the output file is out of date and rebuild the source file
	- This could cause some problems if things if modification dates are messed up by a zip file or some manual tampering with the output files
- Given a set of files to build, find the minimum set of files to build to make everything up to date

Makefile:
```Makefile
myprog: myprog.c
	gcc myprog.c
	mv a.out myprog
```

This says myprog is dependent on myprog.c and it will build myprog if myprog.c is updates and make is invoked.

The indents **must be tabs** for makefiles to work.

```Makefile
myprog: myprog.c
	gcc myprog.c
	mv a.out myprog

myprog_stuff.zip: myprog.c myprog 
	zip myprog_stuff.zip myprog.c myprog
```

the stuff the the left of the colon **MUST** be the name of the output file with a few exceptions, e.g. `all`


<span style='color:violet'>More Fancy</span>

```Makefile
all: myprog myprog_stuff.zip

myprog: myprog.c
	gcc myprog.c
	mv a.out myprog

myprog_stuff.zip: myprog.c myprog 
	zip myprog_stuff.zip myprog.c myprog
```

`all` will then build all the things you put in the list
It is a <span style='color:violet'>phoney rule </span> that tells make what you want to build when you rebuild everything. Phony rules are only to be used for top level builds.

When you call the `make` with no arguments, it defaults to building the first argument, which in a well designed makefile, will be `all`.

###### Building c incrementally
If we want to build a big c program, we can always pass all the c files to gcc like normal. The probem is that this builds everything from scratch even if only a little has changes. So, if you change someMain.c, it recompiles things that aren't needed. If there is a large piece of software, it can take hours to days to build the project from scratch.

c is designed to make sure that it can be build incrementally, because c is old and computers were slower in the past. 

The problem with compiling incrementally is that there are lots of interdependancies. 

To solve this, we build <span style='color:violet'>.o files</span> which are individually compiles c files. It let's us do the build in 2 states: compilations and linking. the `-c` flag in gcc means compile but don't link. The .o files does everything it can to compile a piece of code, but will have a TODO list of files it needs to link to that it doesn't have all the info for yet.

``` sh
gcc -c someMain.c -o someMain.o
gcc -c bigLibraryA.c bigLibraryA.o
gcc -c bigLibraryB.c bigLibraryB.o
gcc someMain.o biglibraryA.o bigLibraryb.o -o someProg
```

The above code isn't nessesarily faster unless you *reuse* the old .o files that you haven't modified when you rebuild someProg. This is where make comes in.


```Makefile
someMain.c: someMain.c bigLibraryA.h bigLibraryB.h
	gcc -c someMain.c -o someMain.o

bigLibraryA.o: bigLibraryA.c bigLibraryA.h
	gcc -c bigLibraryA.c -o bigLibraryA.o

bigLibraryB.o: bigLibraryB.c bigLibraryA.h
	gcc -c bigLibraryB.c -o bigLibraryB.o

someProg: someMain.o bigLibraryA.o bigLibraryB.o
	gcc somemain.o bigLibraryA.o bigLibraryB.o -o someProg
```

Header files have only the function signatures, and this checks to make sure that a local reference calls a real thing. This enables the c compiler to check to make sure that a function properly calls external function because everything was built based on the headers.

If you've modified a c file and a header file, there might be an issue if the header files aren't listed as make dependancies. Sometimes, the linker won't notice that the two header files are slightly different and will still produce an executable. This would produce weird and terrible hard to debug bugs.

<span style='color:orange'>ALWAYS include header files in the dependancy lists of any c files that use them.</span>

PHONEY  Targets
