### Communicating Between Processes
```toc

```

^TOC

**"The file system sucks ass! don't use it unless you absolutly have to!
Also don't use the internet."**

- Normally processes are intentionally isolated from each other, but sometimes they need to communicate.
- They *can* use other things like an external thing like the filesystem- but that tends to have other terrible side effects and adds lots of thing that can go wrong.
	- In general, make programs that <span style='color:orange'> have as few external dependancies. as possible.</span>

###### Simplist way - Shared Memory.
- Establish a region of shared memory
	- both processes can read or wreite data in a shared memory region.
	- the OS has no control over this memory.
	- Memory pointers don't match up between processes, HOWEVER, you can allocated a certain memory region that is flagged to be share.
		- The OS does this by relaxing the normal memory seperation between processes and therefore isn't involved at all afterwards. It has no checking for type, data, or anything. It's exactly like regular memroy.
	- The parent process has to be the one to allocate the shared memory.


```C
static int *glob_var;

int main(void){
	glob_var = mmap(NULL, sizeof *glob_var, PROT_READ | PROT_WRITE, MAP_SHARED | MAP_ANONYMOUS, -1, 0); //MAP_ANONYMOUS prevents the memory from being backed up in a file

	*globvar = 1;

	if (fork() == 0){
		*glob_var = 5;
		exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
	}
	else {
		wait(NULL);
		printf("%d\n", *glob_var);
		munmap(glob_var, sizeof *glob_var);
	}
}


```


###### Message Passing

- Allows processes to communicate and to synchronize their activities without having to share the same address space
- It requires certain communication link, e.g. shared memory, network
- Methods: socket, pipe, etc...


###### Pipes
 ```C
 int pipe(int fds[2]);

/**
*Parameters:
*
*fd[0] will be the fd (file descriptor) for the read end of the pipe.
*
*fdp[1] will be the fd for the write end of pipe. 
*
*Returns: 0 on Success
*		-1 on error.
**/

 
 ```

Before you fork, you generate a pipe => then you fork.
Both processes have access to the same file descriptors.

The child closes the read side of the fd and uses the write command on the write side of the fd.

The parent closes the write side of the fd and uses the read command on the read side of the fd to get the data sent.

When you try to read from a file and no one has it open to write, <span style='color:violet'>UNIX returns a special code that tells you that. </span>You can use that value to know when the processes die.

#### PIPES will definitly be on the exam - in two weeks ish from today


