### Exam One Info
```toc

```

^TOC

Exam 1 from 8:00PM to 11:00PM on Wed

Primary skill on this exam is forking
- Some amount of fairly complicated forking.
- Being times is part of the exam, monitor your time.

There will be a room assignment posted on the course forum **look for it.** 




The parts tent to be of increasing difficultu, but sometimes you can do parts out of order. The harder questions are usually worth *less* points.

Know how to use GDB to debug a problem.

Openbook, open course website, you can use all of the sample code given plus any code you have written.

No using google. Only manpages and *maybe* ask professors.
- Might let you google while prof watches.


There will be novel problems on the exam.

#### Important things:
Things to use:
- FORKS!
	- how to tell if parent/child
	- combine multiple forks in loops/structures
		- serial/parallel children
	- how to get data to the children so they know what to do.
	- how to wait/communicate using exit status & wait
	- how to know the PIDs of your children
- Exec
	- `execlp` and `execvp` and when you want to use one or the other
	- how to pass parameters to exec functions - don't forget to pass the executable name twice, and always pass the final null
	- how to combine with fork/wait to run things in the background, foregronud, or just convert one process to another
	- BE SURE TO CHECK FOR EXEC FAILURES.
- Signals
	- Signals to register a handler
	- Use signal masks
	- Communicate data to and from signal handlers - GLOBALS
- IPC - Inter-process communication
	- Pipes
	- Shared-Memory - mmap
- Makefiles
	- 15 free points for making a makefile
	[[Class 2022-03-17]]

