### Problems with Concurrent Programming

```toc
```
^TOC

#### Thread collisions
```C
int max;
volatile int counter = 0; //shared global variable


void *mythread(void *arg) {
	char *letter = arg;
	int i; //stack (private per thread)
	printf("%s: begin [addr of i: %p]\n",letter, &i);
	for (i = 0; i<max;i++){
		counter = counter +1; //shared: only one
	}
	printf("%s: done\n",letter);
	return NULL;
}
```


When you have two threads, there might be an interleaving that causes concurrent modification when interleaved instructions try to edit the same variable at the same time. This entire problem is causes by scheduling pre-emption - e.g. using yields - [[Class 2022-03-11]]

#### Goal: prevent concurrent modification
Finish the <span style='color:red'>critical section</span> of code as a unit with no interrupt.

> Note: Windows 3-1 did not have pre-emptive multitasking - code error? REBOOT!

##### Approach 1: Alarms
Disable/enable the interrupt alarm
```c
void lock(){
	DisableInterrupts();
}

void unlock(){
	EnableInterrupts();
}
```

Although this has correct performance, it is not a valid solutions because you can't just turn off all the interupts.

##### Approach 2: Global flags
Use a global flag with lock structs - This won't work because any user defined structures will have the same concurrent modification problems as any other variable.

This is <span style='color:red'>BAD</span> because it just makes the problem less likely, but doesn't eliminate it $\therefore$ makes it harder to debug.

> Peterson's algorithm is a way of using global flags to prevent concurrent modification BUT this doesn't work for more than two threads. For that, there is the generalized Peterson's algorithm, which doesn't even work on modern CPU's because modern caching makes the algorithm unreliable.

##### Approach 3: Actual Solution
This is the only thing that works - special CPU specific hardware instruction set that can make lock/unlock work that is 100% correct. The only rule is<span style='color:orange'>DO NOT implement concurrency primitives youself.</span> because there are built in concurrency primitives and making one yourself is dicey. 

> If you ever make a concurrency primitive and have a good reason to do so, call up Buffalo. 




