### Exam 2 Review
```toc
```
^TOC
*Never* reuse code for condition variable problems. Always start from scratch because the condition variable logic needs to be perfect.

Exam one Review - Has some good info: [[Class 2022-03-28]]

3 Problems of increasing difficulty, with the 3rd being around the difficulty of the easier condition variable 2 homework problems.

#### Skills Covered
- Thread creation - one question
	- Use threads to parallelize code - create/join
	- Passing parameters to threads - struct for multiple args
		- Make thread param arrays
	- Using mutexes
- Condition Variables & Mutexes - 2 questions
	- Mutex lock/unlokc
	- CV wait, signal, broadcast
	- Concurrent algorithms:
		- producer consumer
		- reader/writer
- CV Specific advice
	- ALWAYS ask if you do not understand what is correct and incorrect behavior
	- It's frequent that the output looks corect but there are still ocncurrency bugs
	- You *can* use sleeps to adjust timing to make concurrency bugs more evidenct a bit but *NEVER* rely on sleeps to make the code work - get rid of before submitting.
	- There's usually non reason to have more than one mutex - use "lock the world" strategy
	-  [[Class 2022-04-19#Notes on implementation]]
	- Most deadlocks and edge cases will not show themselves in the test cases
	- NEVER allow two concurrend threads to modify a varaible or a thread to read available while in an inconsistant state
		- Simple ot aquire a lock before reading or writing to the global state
	- NEVER use busy waiting - will lose decent amount of points
	- Weird CV functions are not needed
#### How it's graded
- List of things - each bad thing has a certain number of points that will be taken off for it
- List of concurrency problems that are sorted from straightforward to more edgecase, with simple concurrency bugs taking off more points.
- Additional points if the output *looks* wrong in addition to the program having concurrency problems
- Having <span style='color:red'>ANY SINGLE mistake</span> will make you lose 30% of the credit for the problem. 
- There can be solutions that look correct but gets zero points.
##### Write everything out on paper before writing code!

#### Example problem
Basically the band problem - look at solution below is prob wrong - typed up fast in class.
```c
pthread_mutex_t mutex = PTHREAD_MUTEX_INITIALIZER;
pthread_cond_t hyWait = PTHREAD_COND_INITIALIZER;
pthread_cond_t oxWait = PTHREAD_COND_INITIALIZER;
int oxInCrit;
int hyInCrit;
bool critical;

void bonding(){
	pthread_mutex_lock(&mutex);
	hyInCrit--;
	if(hyInCrit ==0 && oxInCrit == 0){
		pthread_cond_signal(&hyWait,&mutex);
	}
	pthread_mutex_unlock(&mutex);
}

void hyThread(){
	pthread_mutex_lock(&mutex);
	while( hyInCrit == 2){
		pthread_cond_wait(&hyWait,&mutex);
	}
	hyInCrit++;
	pthread_mutex_unlock(&mutex);
	bonding();
}

```