### Function pointers
```toc

``` 

^TOC

Init:
> `int (*my_fun_pointer)(double,double)`

Makes a function pointer that takes in 2 doubles and returns and integer

> `void (freefunc) (void*)`

Is an arg for a very generic function pointer that does

### Processes
A process is a running program. A program is the code that is on your computer, but one that is sitting there doing nothing. A process will have the code along with a stack and a heap.

### What is an OS?
It is a program
- Its job is to manage othe rpgorams.
- It is the first program to run in a computer.
- It directly controls all hardware resources (CPU,memory)
- Every other programs need to request resources through the OS
	- It attempts to lock down the resources so that another program can't take control of the system

"What really differentiates the guards from the prisoners, is who gets there first" - Analogy for an OS controlling other programs.

### Threads
###### A thread is like a "subprocess"
### How to switch between 2 "threads"
###### (swapcontext)
- Update program counter - what is next code run.
- Update the stack pointer - where is my own stack.
- Store the current registers into memory - remember what's in the current context now
- Restore the saved state of the computation registers - restore previous context

### Process Control Block
###### A data structure the OS uses to store frozen processes
It has all of the processes that are "running" on the computer but are frozen. All of the process states are stored to the PCB, and the OS decides whic process to run. It runs a process for a while, then another process for a while etc... 

###### CPU Context Switch
- Context-switch time is **overhead** while the ystem is switching, no process does work. 
- Time for a context switch is dependent on hardware support.

##### <span style='color:violet'> While an OS runs a process, the OS is **NOT** running. </span>
Before putting another programs machine code onto the CPU, the OS will put the CPU into a state where the program can't control certain hardware resources. This is called an <span style='color:orange'>unpriviledged CPU mode.  </span>

To regain control, the OS sets a timer interupt that gives control back to the OS.

### Process States
 - Ready
	 - Can be scheduled to run by the OS
	 - Is scheduled => move to running state
 - Running
	 - timer interumpt goes off => control goes to OS
	 - IO request => process goes to blocked
 - Blocked
	 - OS manages any IO stuff
	 - Pulls out of the ready queue and puts it into a queue of processes that need IO input.
	 - When data arrives for a process, it will put the process back into the ready queue