### Filesystem (II)
```toc

```

^TOC

###### More Indexed Operation

**Indirect Blocks**
Normally inodes just have addresses of blocks, but this greatly limits file size. To try to address this, there can be <span style='color:violet'> indirect blocks</span>, in inodes where the inode references another 4k (depends on system) block that only stores other block references. By doing this, you add another 1000 or so block entries to the max filesize. 

Normally, you would load the inode into memory, then accessing positions in the file would be a fast, O(1) operation. By having an indirect block, file load time could potentially be twice that of a normal inode.

You can keep adding indirect blocks, but overall, the file access time would be at least twice that as normal. Each indirect block would  add 4MB, to the max file size. Doing this still wouldn't reach reasonable file sizes. 

**Double indirect block**
All of the entries in an indirect block, represent another indirect block. Adding one double indirect block adds a <span style='color:orange'>million</span> more entries, which adds <span style='color:orange'>4GB</span> per double indirect block.

**Triple indirect block**
Same as double indirect block, but 3 layers deep. Each triple indirect block adds <span style='color:orange'>1000000000</span> blocks to the max file size. At this point, a max file size isn't even considered. But this makes accessing data in these triple indirect blocks at least 3 times as long to access. Max file size around 

###### Directories
Directories are special files that typically contain data in a certain format to decribe their directory entries <span style='color:orange'>(dentries)</span>  Creating a file will add an entry in its directory.
Deleting a file just neds to set a reverse inode number on that file in its directory. *Don't store the same data in two places, that's terrible, don't ever do it.* 

###### Directory practice
**Toy filesystem example**
In hypothetical file system, each block is 1kB. You need to know what blocks are valid and invalid. A block with all zeros is *not* and invalid block. There needs to be a way to know if a block is invalid without looking at the block. Enter <span style='color:violet'>bitmap</span>. A bitmap is, a map of bits where each bit index represents whether a block has valid data in it. It is a mini representation of the entire system. This data would be stored in block 0. The bitmap itself should be marked as a 1. Each file needs to have an inode associated with it. An inode consists of a filesize, a direct pointer (region), and an indirect pointer(region). The direct pointer points to the first block of the file. The indirect pointer would point to an indirect block.

There also needs to be a way to track if inodes are valid or invalid.

For the file to have a name and be searchable, it needs to have a directory associated with it. The directory stores a file's name and it's inode. Directories are files themselves and $\therefore$ must have an inode. The root directory inode must be in a special location, otherwise, the computer wouldn't be able to find anything. This would be inode location 0. 

*Each inode in a filesystem has the same format, where there is a set direct region, indirect region, double indirect region, and triple indirect region.*

Now, the file is ready to be read. 

