### More Garbage Collection

```toc
```
^TOC

#### Simple tracing garbage collection

Periodically or when memory is low...

1. Pause the execution of out language
2. Start with a set of pointers that we call the "roots"
	1. These are cariales that are definitely accessible
	2. Includes the stacks of all threads
	3. Includes globals
3. For each accessile object
	1. Finds all objects that are accessible through the object's fields
	2. mark these objects as accessible
	3. Add these objects tothe list o objects to be searched
4. When this is done, free any unmarked objects

<span style='color:green'>PROS: </span>
- Never Frees something accessible
- Always frees everything unused
- No trouble with circular references

<span style='color:red'>CONS</span>
- Basically have to visit the entire memory space - SLOW
- Program is paused while this is happening
- Memory is fragmented

This is why languages like Java are subject to random long pauses.

This method is still used because it reduces bugs, and oftentimes, the cost of an increased runtime of a program is worth less than the cost of paying someone to fix more bugs.

#### Compacting GC
Seems inefficient - more efficient in the long run

 1. Copy known accessable objects via a memory traversal similar to that of the tracing GC, update all references
	 - Re-writing the memory pointers isn't as bad when you are in the middle of a traversal than otherwise.
 2. Free the old memory space.

Allocation and deallocation isn't super expensive, but it isn't free.

Deallocation: 
OS call -> lookup memory in page table -> mark page as invalid

Cost of a system call. 

You generally want to avoid system calls as much as possible because it's likely that you'll lose the rest of your CPU slot.

Malloc and free attempt to reuse memory space by trying to fill up the OS allocated pages as much as possible before making an OS system call to allocate more memory, and 

Malloc and free are sophisticated functions that do alot of work that would be complicated to do manually.

De-allocating memory in one big chunk, is considered a constant time operation. Therefore, by de-fragmenting the memory and making all the memory to be freed in one chunk makes deallocating much faster.

<span style='color:green'>PROS:</span> 
- Defrag as it goes
	- Therefore can allocate by moving a pointer to the large free space after the used memory region
- Can deallocate the enetire old memory region at once. 
	- De-allocating takes a constant-ish time regardless of the size.
- Can even move related objects close to eachother which will improve caching performance.

<span style='color:red'>CONS:</span>
- Time spent copying 
- Costs double the memory
- Breaks pointer arithmetic or non-gc-managed pointers.
	- This makes POINTER ADDRESSES CHANGE OVER THE LIFETIME OF THE POINTER!


#### Generalization Heuristic

Based on: most objects tend to life for a very short time, but SOME like for a very long time.

1. Have a seperate memory spae for long lived obhects
2. Take a special note of when a long-lived object starts pointing to a short-lived object - Can detect based on memory space
	1. Put such short lived objects in a "<span style='color:orange'>remembered set</span>"

This means that during the memory traversal done by the GC, we can ignore the long-lived objects, and all of the short lived objects inside the <span style='color:orange'>remembered set.</span>

1. Start from the roots, but ignore any references from the roots to long lived objects. Assume all long lived objects are going to be kept and references to the short-lived objects are handled by  the remebered et.
2. Consider the remembered set as roots.

Any such short lived objects not marked by #1 or #2 are inaccessible and freed.

3. After sometime, promote short lived objects to long lived objects.

N.B. because this is a heuristic, so occasionally we problably need to GC collect the whole memory space.

#### Final Stage: Incremental/Concurrent GC

We really want to avoid the long pause of "stop the world" garbage collection. This is because the average program doesn't use all the CPU cores available in a mordern computer, and if you 

