### OS xv6 Project
```toc
```
^TOC

#### General Guidlines
Everything that the OS does is a potential attack vector for malicious code. As such, the core OS should be as small as possible and do as little as possible, and user programs shold implement all of the user-friendly features.

#### System calls
A program or library all runs on the same user-code permisison level. A system call to the OS will run the code at a different permission level. If a piece of user-code were to jump to the binary code for a piece of OS code, it wouldn't work because the user-code doesn't have the correct permissions. 

##### How does it work:
When a system call is made, the program (the OS now) needs to have elevated permissions. There needs to be a way to securely elevate the OS code permissions without any user-code being able to do so. 

This works very similar to error handling, where certain errors are taken care of by handlers, which give full control of the system back to the OS should an error occur.

A system call would involve filling some registers with information, you fill out one of these registers that tells the handler what system call you want to do, then you run an instruction that triggers one of these error handling routines, which then wakes up the OS with elevated permissions.

The system calls are unique to each OS and there is no global standard. These error handlers are specific to each CPU.

When you invoke a system call, it looks like you are making a function call the a normal library, but this is NOT at all what is happening. 

