### Userspace Threads
```toc

```

^TOC

To have a user-friendly thread, we need to have a gui thread and a processing thread. The gui thread needs to remain responsive and have a progress indicator in order for the user to know the process is working.

> `yield()`

Is a statement that means pause and give other threads/processes a chance to run, but give me back control as soon as possible. In the example given, the `yield()` causes the threads to switch between eachother, meaning they aren't actually running in parallel. 

###### Non-Preemptive thread switching. 
Threads only switch when they yield. This can cause a problem if there are any "bad threads" that have an infinite loop for example. This is why most threading systems use preemptive threading, whereby threads are forced to switch afte a given amount of time. This prevents any one thread/process from hogging CPU time.

##### Actually uses `ucontext` calls

> `swapcontext(&currentContext,&newContext)`

It puts one thread in "cryosleep" while pulling another thread out of "cryosleep." <span style='color:violet'>Once a thread is in "cryostorage" it has NO CONTROL over when it is ever worken up. It is completely dependent on another thread using `swapcontext()` to swap back.</span> When you call `swapcontext()`, you do so knowing that it might never return. 

Swap context never returns in a normal way. When it returns, the code starts after the `swapcontext()` call, with all of the local state that was there when the code was frozen.

> `ucontext_t`

^^Those variables have a saved registers, signal state, and a bunch of stuff about the implicit execution environment that the OS cares about.

 
 ```C
 ucontext_t child;
 getcontext(&child)
 ```

We don't have to manually initialize ucontext_t variables, but `getcontext()` is a way to get a good starting point fo the context variable.

>`makecontext(&child, &threadFunction,0)`

Makecontext takes a mostly filled in ucontext_t variable and makes it run the code in the threadfunction.

In `swapcontext(&parent,&child)` swapcontext overwrites everything in the parent with the current context. The `&child` is never run before and therefore needs to be properly initialized before the first swapcontext to child. This means that the child needs to be initialized before the first swapcontext call. This only needs to happen once.

##### HINT:
First test case only has one parent thread and one child thread: Copy the first parent and child variables from the example threads, and instead just copy/paste the existing code and getting it all working to pass the testcase.  <span style='color:violet'> Don't mess around with the threads array to begin with.</span>``