### Signals
```toc

```

^TOC

A UNIX thing, windows has their own version.

##### Motivation
- The OS wants to "interfere" iwth other processes by menas of an "interrupt"
	- The interrupt needs to have hardware support.
		- Timer Interupt is an example.
	- Executes and invalid instruction
		- The processor doesn't understand that there are different types of programs that are running, or even different programs - it is just aware that it is jumping to different points in memory.
		- There is going to be an <span style='color:violet'>exception handling table</span> where the table maps possible things that could go wrong to memory addresses. When a program runs, it adds its function to that table. When the OS is in control, it then knows what program messed up and can deal with it.
##### What is a Signal
A signal is a mechanism for the OS to sent important "alerts" to a running process in a way that can disrupt normal execution.
	- Used for processes trying to kill/reboot the computer
	- Illegal operations
	- ctrl+c on the cmd-line
		- Sends SIGINT
Most signals kill your process.

<span style='color:violet'>Error handling:</span> Unless your error handler is very well contructed, most error handling can make the situation worse. Normally, when something big like AWS goes down, the thing that went wrong is an error handler, because it is one of the few things that runs across a whole system at once. The error handling system is the vector for the worst possible errors.

<span style='color:orange'>Simple Rule:</span>  **<span style='color:red'>DONOT</span>**  have multiple error handling system.

Most of the time, when you have an error the good thing to do is crash.
Then have the error handler try to handle the crash. 

```C
sigaction() //Modern signal handler
```
is the modern version of 
```C 
signal() //Depriciated signal handler
```

###### Handlers 
- A signal handler is a "forced" function call whenever you recieve that signal.
- You can execute your code in the handler.
- If you return from your signal hander, execution continues from wherever you left.

###### Forced Jump
- Some library function can't handle interruptions.
- There are rules for any given functions that that say what will happen in case of a signal.
- To fix this, you can block certain signals. This is called a <span style='color:violet'>signal mask</span>

Each type of signal is managed individually - blocking example:

```C
sigset_t mask;
sigemptyset(&mask);
sigaddset(&mast,SIGINT);

//block that signal set
sigprocmask(SIG_BLOCK,&mask,NULL);
```

Most functions are NOT SAFE to call in a signal handler.
UserSpace Threading 2 will VIOLATE these rules agressively - so DON'T USE IT IN PRACTICE.

<span style='color:violet'>Signal handlers will mask signals of their own type.</span>
When you are in a handler DONOT touch the mask.

There should be special versions of functions that you can call from signal handlers.