### Filesystems (I)
```toc
 
```

^TOC

#### Ways to store files:

Things to consider
 - ease of creating new files
 - waste of metadata
 - max files system/file size
 - random access cost


###### Contiguous Allocation
Divide disk in to fixed-sized blocks (usually 4KB)
One way to organize dataregions is by using <span style='color:orange'>contiguous blocks.</span> To know where a file is, we have to know where it starts, how long it is, and *that's it.*

This has good random access and small amounts of metadata. However, it might be hard to move things around or insert new files if the disk is getting full.

- <span style='color:red'>Terrible to add space to files</span>
- <span style='color:green'>Very small amounts of metadata</span>
- <span style='color:green'>Good random access.</span>
- <span style='color:red'>Hard to add new files as the HDD approaches capacity</span>
- <span style='color:red'>Can wear out chunks of sectors faster by having to shift data when you grow a file</span>
- Can be used for things like CDROM where you already know everything that's going to be on the filesystem and you don't need to write to it later.

###### Linked Allocation

In each block, you store as the last few bytes, a link that points to the next block. As you read the file, it always tells you what to read next. This means that random access is bad, but it's easier to squeeze files into an almost filled disk.

- <span style='color:red'>Bad random access</span>
- <span style='color:green'>"Unlimited" file size</span>
- <span style='color:green'>Easy to add and remove</span>
- <span style='color:green'>Easy to squeeze blocks into fragmented space</span>
- Medium amount of metadata

###### Indexed Allocation

Use pointers to fixed size blocks.

<span style='color:orange'>inode list</span>

inode structures have a fixed size, that have an arrays of a fixed size that contain the location of each block of data for the file in the inode.

Each file owns those blocks, and to add to a file, you simply add the next block location to the array.

- <span style='color:green'>Good random access</span>
- <span style='color:green'>Easy to grow and shrink files</span>
- <span style='color:green'>Easy to squeeze blocks into fragmented space</span>
- <span style='color:red'>Hard limited max file size</span>
- <span style='color:red'>Lots of metadata</span>


Look at what are **Disk trees.**

#### Hybrid datasystems

###### FAT Filesystem
- A disk is divided into clusters
- A **F**ile **A**llocation **T**able (FAT) stores the "linked list" of files blocks so that you can load the FAT into memory and traverse the list in memory, which is significantly faster than traversing it on the disk
- If the FAT ever gets corrupted, **ALL** of the data on the disk is immediatly lost.

Pros and Cons
- Simple to use
- Cross-platform compatible
- No random access
- Upper-capped file size of 4GB ebcause it uses 32 bit to denote file size
- Bad security


EXT2 Lab is "Interestingly difficult"

Give yourself plenty of time.