### More Mutex
```toc
```
^TOC

#### Notes on implementation

Even if you're just reading a variable, you MUST aquire a lock

When using condition variables use mutexes solely as a tool to read or modify the global state of the system. This means that any one thread can't hold on to the lock for a "long time." 

Grab lock => read global state => write global state => unlock mutex

The mutex shold be only held for a "bounded amount of time"

This ensures that everyone can access the global state in a reasonable amount of time.

If there's ever a thread that needs to wait for a condition to be true, use a condition variable to wait. That way, no part of the system is held up with locks.

Must destroy mutexes after use.
```c
pthread_mutex_destroy(&m);
```

#### General Guidlines
- Have 1 mutex and any number of conditio nvariables depending on the number ofreasons to wait.
- There will be a number of varaibles to represent the "concurrency state"
	- the concurency state is what threads use to determine whether they should run or wait
- If you wait to wait or update the global state, you MUST hold the mutex
- If reading the concurrency state indicates that you need to wait, use a wait on an approtriate signal on a while loop, which will implicitly unlock the mutex.
	- When you wake up,<span style='color:violet'> you already have the lock </span> so it's safe to read and update the state of the system
- If you are able to proceed, unlock the mutex when it's safe to proceed.
- Never hold to mutex for a long amount of time
- Never use the mutex to protect sometime.
- Only use the mutex to safeguard the <span style='color:green'>conccurency state.</span>
- Use <span style='color:orange'>waiting</span> to ensure that all threads do not proceed when it is unsafe to do so.
- Every wait needs a corresponding signal or signals. Consider careully whether you with to use signal or broadcast. 
	- You should also hold a lock when you signal.
- When possible, try to avoid threads waking up and re-sleeping, but sometimes this is unavoidable
	- In general, it's better to use more condition variables to deal with cases where you need to broadcast to everyone, but this becomes impractical in some situations.
- <span style='color: red'>NEVER</span> busy wait

#### Note on thread stuff
Using the `__thread`  (idk what the term is) before a variable makes it so that each thread has it's own independant version of that variable.

```c
__thread int threadInt;
```

To initialize/assign a pthread_mutex when you declare it
use the following:
```c
pthread_mutex_t lock = PTHREAD_MUTEX_INITIALIZER;
```