### The exec family of system calls
```toc

```

^TOC

The exec family of system calls replaces the program executed bua process.
 - System calls are all functions that request a resource via oS
 
 When a process calls exec, all code (text) and data in the process is lost.  The new process stomps all over the old one and replaces everything.
```C
int execv(const char* path, char* const argv[]);
```

**path** is the path to the new program
In argv, each argument must be passed in their own string.
the array must be <span style='color:red'>NULL</span> terminated since C arrays have no length information. 

```C
int main(){
char* const argv[] = {"/bin/ls", "-1",NULL};
execv(argv[0],argv);
perror("Return from execv() not expected");
exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
}
```

`execvp()` uses the current path.

```C
int main(){
char* const cmd[] = {"ls", "-1",NULL};
execvp(cmd[0],cmd);
perror("Return from execvp() not expected");
exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
}
```

`execlp()` is similar, execpt you jam all the argumets at the end.

```C
int main(){
execlp("ls","ls","-1",NULL);
perror("Return from execlp() not expected");
exit(EXIT_FAILURE);
}
```

### Fork

Creates a copy of the parent process in a new process. After the fork, both the parent and the child executes the same progam but in seperate processes. Since both processes have the SAME STATE AFTER BEING COPIED, you have to look at the return value of fork to figure out what to do.

###### Fork returns twice.
- It returns once in the parent, in which it returns the PID of the child which was just spawned.
- It returns once in the child in which it returns 0.
- It could <span style='color:red'>return -1</span> in the parent, which means there was in error. In this case you shold print and crash.

###### Wait
The wait *system call* blocks the caller until one of its child processes terminates. Wait will return when any child returns. If the caller doesn't have any children, wait returns immediatly without blocking the caller.
Using wait, the parent can obtain the exit status ofthe terminated child.

###### Process Creation
When a child terminates, it's not required that the parent uses `wait()` immediately. If the parent doesn't wait a child immediatly after it terminates, the OS can't clean up the process. 

An orphan process is a process whose parent process has terminated though it remains running itself. Any orphaned process will be immediatly adopted by the special init system process with PID 1.

A terminated process is said to be a zombie or defunct until the parent does wait on the child. 

"If you were expecting you parent to do something cool when you finished, that's not going to happen if you parent is dead. - Dr. Hewner"