---
excalidraw-default-mode: view
---

```toc

```

^TOC

<[[2022-2023 Sophomore/Winter Quarter/MA374-01/2022-11-29|previous]] | [[2022-2023 Sophomore/Winter Quarter/MA374-01/2022-12-02|next]]>

Day 2
## Lists Without Repetition - Permutations

> <u>Definition:</u>
> A <span style='color: orange;'>list</span> is a collection of items where order matters.


### Examples:

> Determine the number of lists of length 3 using the digits 1,2,3 and *no repeated digits.*

$$3\cdot2\cdot1 = 3! = 6$$

> Determine the number of lists of length 3 using digits from the set $\{1,2,3,4,5\}$ with no digits repeated.

$$5\cdot4\cdot3\cdot(\frac{2\cdot1}{2\cdot1})\equiv\frac{5!}{2!}$$

### Permutations:
> Definition:
> A list of length $r$ from a set of $n$ objects, in which <u>no objects are repeated,</u> is called a **permutation** of length $r$, or an *r-permutation.*
> - Distinct objects
> - Repetition not allowed
> - "an ordering of distinct objects"


**Counting permutations.**
The number of permutations of size $r$ from a set of $n$ objects (where $1\leq r \leq n$) is:
$$P(n,r) = \frac{n!}{(n-r)!}$$

**Special Case:** $P(n,n) = \frac{n!}{0!} \equiv n!$

#### Examples:
> Find the number of ways to build a stack of 10 cards using a standard 52-card stack

$$\frac{52!}{42!} = 57,407,703,889,536,000$$

> Find the number of ways to build a stack of 10 cards using a standard 52-card deck if the top and bottom cards must be face cards.

$$12\cdot50\cdot49\cdot48\cdot47\cdot46\cdot45\cdot44\cdot43\cdot11$$
$$\equiv\frac{12\cdot11\cdot50!}{42!}$$
$$\equiv\frac{12!}{10!}\cdot\frac{50!}{42!}$$

Note! This is **NOT** probability, so you can just decide to place the bottom card, then the top card, then the rest of the card.


> How many ways can we arrange the letters in COMPUTER (all caps)?

$$8!$$

> How many ways can we arrange the letters in COMPUTER (all caps) if CO must remain next to each other in that order?

$$7!$$
because you just pretend that CO is it's own unique object.

> How many permutations of the letters ABCDEF contain the substring DEF?

 $$4!$$

Same thing as last time, you just pretend that DEF is it's own unique object. Therefore there are 4 characters, that can be arranged in 4 boxes.

> How many permutations of the letters ABCDEF contain the DEF next to each other in any order>


$$4!\cdot3!$$
